[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: Who
here is a Netflix user?
Great.
All right, that's what I love to see.
The Netflix model is pretty simple.
When you go in,
you get merchandise a list of genres, and
within those lists of genres we
recommend you a list of titles.
So let's try using map and filter
concatAll to get a list of your favorite
Netflix titles.
>> Jafar Husain: Here's how
you would do it.
So I wanna create a function
called getTopRatedFilms and
that's gonna accept a user object.
And every user object has a videoLists
array, that's just the array of genre
lists that you saw earlier,
the action movies, thrillers.
We're going to map over all
of those video lists, and
before we return the video of this
we're first going to filter it
to make sure all of the videos, we're only
returning videos with a rating of five.
Now because for every video list, notice
we're returning another collection, right?
Notice the function being passed
to map returns videoList.videos,
which is another array.
That means we have a two dimensional
array and we apply concatAll to it
to flatten it down into a nice
flat list of your favorite titles.
Does that make sense?
Should we go over that just a little bit,
or
do we feel pretty good about it?
>> Jafar Husain: Any
questions?
>> Off Camera 1: Why is it 2D?
>> Jafar Husain: Why is it 2D?
Well remember we're starting with pretty
much, it's kind of like a two dimensional
collection because we've got genres and
within that we have videos.
Right, so first we're mapping over
the outer array, the genre lists array.
And then with that function
that we're passing the map,
its job is to take each one of
those arrays and translate it.
And what are we doing?
Well, we're just returning the videos
array, but first we're just filtering it.
And so that means for every array,
we're just returning a filtered
version of that array.
Does that makes sense?
Technically it's an object
with an array inside of it.
That's the videoList.videos,
but you get the idea, right?
For each one of these video lists, which
contains an array we're returning that
array, but
first we're applying a filter to it.
And we're just making sure that all
the titles are only the titles you've
rated highly.
And so
at the end up until the concatAll line,
we have a two dimensional collection.
At the end we apply concatAll and that's
what takes that two dimensional collection
and flattens into one dimensional
collection of your favorite titles,
all the titles with a rating of five.
Yeah?
>> Off Camera 2: So
you mentioned that we had
just a normal for loop,
it's not going to work asynchronously?
>> Jafar Husain: Yes.
>> Off Camera 2: So, if we had this and
let's say it starts with three items and
it starts running through, and
then after it's done concatAll,
we get the fourth item.
Does it run through again, or
can you explain how it works
asynchronously?
>> Jafar Husain: Well so
I'm not going to talk about
asynchrony at all yet.
>> Off Camera 2: Okay.
>> Jafar Husain: This is just arrays.
We are just working with arrays here.
So a for
loop would work just fine to be honest.
>> Off Camera 2: Okay.
>> Jafar Husain: But
the goal what we're doing and
why we're talking about arrays at all,
is we're trying to take a data structure
you guys are already familiar with and
feel comfortable with.
And learn how to use these
functions over this data structure.
Before we tackle a very different, but
not so different, data structure
where we introduce asynchrony.
So it's just arrays.
>> Off Camera 2: Okay.
>> Jafar Husain: We can try this right
now.
>> Off Camera 2: I'm with you.
>> Jafar Husain: So now I'm going to ask
you a question, which is what if
I told you you could write nearly
the same code to build a drag and
drop event.
So I'm gonna show you a little preview of
what we're gonna be covering, and what you
can do if you start to get good writing
programs with these few simple functions.
You can take them and
not just use them for arrays, but
also on asynchronous
data sources like events.
So I want you guys to
look really carefully cuz
if you blink you're gonna miss it.
Okay, so here we are,
we're processing your favorite titles,
and here is how you build a mouse drag.
I want you to notice the structure
of this code is almost the same.
What is a mouse drag?
Well, it's all of the mouse moves
that happen between a mouse down and
a mouse up, right?
Imagine for
a second that events weren't this weird
thing that you call with
an addEventListener or
a removeEventListener, this sort of
quasi object hanging off of a DOM.
What if they were first class values that
you could hold onto, just like arrays, and
they had methods on them, just like map
and concatAll and filter for that matter?
We could actually compose
together events to build new,
more complex events using these methods.
So imagine we have a collection of all
of the mouse downs on a DOM element
from now until eternity.
And we just map over it.
And we map over all of the mouse
downs that happen on a DOM element,
like a button for example.
And every single time we get a mouse down,
we then return it, we map over it and
for each mouse down,
we return all of the mouse moves that
are detected on the document level.
Reason why we list the document level is
we're looking for for bubbling, right?
So when I start moving around the button,
my mouse might go faster than the button.
And so by the time I've begun a drag
operation, we wanna be listening at
the document level for mouse move just in
case my mouse gets ahead of the button so
that we can move that button around.
Hopefully that's clear.
So we're literally replacing, cuz what
map is all about it's about replacing.
So for every item in a collection
we wanna replace it with the result
of this function.
So in this case, we're replacing
the actual mouse down event.
That little event object, you would get
if you did an add event listener with
all of the mouse moves
from now until eternity.
But instead of just returning that whole
collection, which would go on forever.
In the previous example, we saw that we
use filter to take certain a collection
and reduce the number
of items inside of it.
Here we're gonna replace the filter
method with a takeUntil method.
All that does is, it takes some stream and
another stream and
it listens to the source of some
stream of information an event,
mouse moves in this case,
until another stream fires.
So I might be listening to a mouse
moves event and the mouse up event, and
I'm just going to keep forwarding
on all those mouse moves,
until the mouse up event happens and
then I'm gonna unsubscribe from both
the mouse moves and the mouse up.
So what we've done is create a collection.
We've taken two collections
which go on for eternity, and
we actually combined them to
create a collection that ends.
Because we listen to one collection
until the other one fires and
that's what takeUntil does.
So just like filter reduced the number
of items in the collection,
takeUntil reduces the number
of items in collection.
What it does is it creates a collection
of all the mouse moves until
the next mouse up and
then the whole collection ends.
So for every single mouse
down we're gonna return,
we're gonna replace that
mouseDown object in the stream,
with another stream of all the mouse
moves until the next mouseUp.
Now notice that I've taken every item
in the collection and I've replaced it
with a collection, which means I have
how many dimensions of collection?
So if I take one, two, three and
then replace each one of those items with
another array, so I have an array of 5 6,
an array of 9 7, and an array of 4 8,
how many dimensions is my collection?
Two, right,
cuz every mouseDown object that we got
we replace with a stream of all
the mouse moves until the next mouseUp.
And so how do we flatten
a two dimensional collection?
ConcatAll.
Yep?
>> Off Camera 3: There's a question,
where you concatAll come from?
>> Jafar Husain: So
contactAll doesn't exist
on the JavaScript array.
We're going to write it ourselves later.
And it does exist on this data type, the
magical data type I'm going to teach you
about that lets you code this way, because
obvious this will work over arrays, right.
You can't model an event as an array just
not possible to do in JavaScript because
for one thing events go on forever, so
you'd run out of memory if
you try to do that, right.
So I'm going to teach you a new data type
later on with the exact same APIs that I'm
going to teach you to use over arrays.
And so we're going to introduce concatAll
onto array today in our exercises, and
then later on we'll show you how to write
concatAll over the data type that I'm
going to reveal to you very, very shortly,
which is what makes this possible.
But we can see that
structurally at the same level,
if we just think about events as a
collection, we should be able to do this.
So the top half of the slide is all about
taking the events that we have in our
system, the primitive events
that we have in our system, and
composing them together to
create more complex events.
Now this is something we do with
functions all the time, right?
You take function A, function B, compose
them together to create function C.
You create function C,
which calls A and B.
But for some reason, when JavaScript
programmers do event-based programming,
they don't do the same sort of
compositional style, and that's wrong.
We should approach events with the same
sort of approach to composition
that we do with functions.
And that's I'm gonna teach
you how to do today.
It's a very powerful technique for
controlling the complexity
involved in asynchronous programs.
I think you're gonna be really
shocked by what we're able to do
with just a few simple functions.
So the top half of the slide is just
creating the stream of mouse drags.
It's actually creating, taking a function
which when given a Dom event, will
return a stream of all of the future mouse
drags that happen on the DOM element.
In other words, all the mouse
moves that happen between a mouse
down and a mouse up.
Now that's the top half of the side.
All we've done is we've created
a stream when a function gets called.
The bottom half of the slide
actually uses forEach
to consume the data inside of
the stream and do something with it.
Increasingly you're going
to see as you write code,
your code will begin to
bifurcate into two parts.
Building the collection that you want, and
then consuming the data in that
collection and doing something with it.
The bottom half of the slide is morally
equivalent to addEventListener.
It turns out that adding
an event listener isn't so
different than forEaching over an array.
What are you really doing?
You're just consuming each item in
a collection as it comes in and
doing something with it.
So here in this particular case we're
actually gonna move the position of
the image, so
that it actually drags around.
You're actually see this code in action
later on, it's pretty impressive.